A protein is a sequence of amino-acids, ranging from 50-2000 in length.  
Upon completion, they fold into a unqiue shape in a very short period of time

Alpha-keratin -> hair/nails
enzymes -> digestive processes
antibodies -> latch onto foreign objects
hemoglobin -> carries oxygen

We learn how they are supposed to act normally and what they do under abnormal operation.

We don't precisely understand how proteins fold.
For a given sequence of amino acids, we cannot predict with accuracy how they fold into their characteristic structure.





We mean a detailed model of the protein.  Detailed down to the atoms and the angles between.

The art of blasting crystals with xrays.  
We grow crystal containing trillions of identical molecules then blast it with x-rays.
The xrays have a small enough wavelength that they can fit between atoms, which allows us to create a digital image of the molecule.

Syncotron produce large quanities of xray radiation.
The wavelength of radiation is ``tunable'' to the size of specifiend atoms.

The ribosome is the cellular ``factory'' which produces protiens.
Antibiotics work by targeting bacterial ribosomes while leaving our unaffected.




NMR advantage -  can do it to solutions, so no need to build crystals, which is hard.  
Reveals other aspects, such as flexability
disadvantage -  can't target as large of structures, newer and not as refined

NOESY reveals distances between protons

understanding how proteins fold may reveal how to prevent misfolding, the suspect of many diseases.



Structure based drug design allows drug developers to skip blind trail and error.
They use computer models of the structure to see how it will interact with molecules.

Scientists discovered the active site in protease's structure.
They created a molecule to bind into it and block replication.

COX-1 contains isoleucine where COX-2 contain Valine, and the drug can bind to Valine.

Natural selection.
Viruses produce multiple mutations during the copy phase, which might be resistant to the drug.
The drug wipes out the nonresistant copies and selects for resistance.  
Soon, all that remains is the resistant strain.
